my name is alex rosenblatt i'm the cmo
at datadog and datadog for those that
don't know is a monitoring and security
company for modern it infrastructure
usually cloud
infrastructure but we'll take anything
that's uh that's complex
um i've been a data dog for eight and a
half years now
at
datadog i was the first go to market
employee so it was a bunch of engineers
when i joined i'm actually former
engineer so that helped in understanding
their language but
there was no marketing there was no
dedicated sales when i started we we
started from scratch and it was a blank
slate and something that we very quickly
found out was that
that building a marketing channel takes
a lot of work and that it's something
that really needs to be done slowly
steadily methodically in order to be
achieved well and once you figure out a
channel then all of a sudden you can
scale and scaling becomes a lot easier
so
on this a good way to think about
everything having to do with marketing
channels is that it's a lot like a
product and maybe some of you have built
product i'm sure that many of you have
interacted with product teams
something that i think is emblematic of
working with a product team is
it's never done i mean it takes you
forever to get to v1 and finally when
you get to that first version what's the
next incremental version 1.1 then 1.2
then sometimes you get 1.2.1
and it just never seems to be ready to
get to that version 2 or version 3
that's a more mature more stable more
robust product which is at least for a
milestone what everybody had intended to
get to
and i don't think that a marketing
channel is any different it takes a lot
of iteration a lot of cycles and a whole
ton of feedback to get the marketing
channel right so you can figure out
everything that you need to do to scale
and hit a ceiling
now a difficulty
with building out marketing channels
especially in the amount of time that's
needed is that the feedback can't come
from a peer or from a very small group
of customers it's got to come from
random people that could be prospective
customers out in the market and it takes
a very very long time for some kinds of
campaigns for them to take a look and
then vote with their feet vote with
their mouse clicks vote with their
eyeballs to go forward and check you out
more
or to say yeah not really interested or
doesn't really fit my need so you need
tons of those cycles and the the tweaks
that you make from the feedback that you
get to try to get everything right to
build a pro a marketing channel like a
product to the point where you can scale
it out and hit a ceiling
now if you're a marketing leader here in
the room or you're working with a
marketing leader where things get a
little bit tricky to get this singular
focus is that the expectations that
people have of marketing are huge
from pr to advertising analyst relations
blogs seo the list of things that
everybody thinks marketing is going to
do
is quite quite expansive and management
thinks that marketing is going to do one
thing sales thinks that marketing is
going to do another thing product
something different even down to an
individual employee that wants to show
the website off to their friends and
family for the company they're working
at and they've got expectations of what
you're going to be doing with that
website as well
so with all of these expectations and
everything that everybody thinks that
marketing should be doing i think that a
key
uh issue with a lot of marketing leaders
or marketers inside of companies is that
they very very quickly get spread thin
they're doing a pinch of blogging
they're doing a pinch of analyst
relations a pinch of press
outreach a little bit of product
marketing here and there and when
they're doing a little bit of everything
it becomes nearly impossible to become
amazing at one single thing oops
so amazing that you want uh sorry can
you go back a sled
thank you
so amazing that you figure out what it
takes to
basically throw the kitchen sink at a
marketing channel to hit the ceiling
that might be there
a key question to ask here while people
are doing a little bit of this a little
bit of that is is any of this work
actually turning into revenue because at
the end of the day the marketing
function is very distinct the marketer
is trying to reach random people that
could be prospective customers floating
out in the market trying to engage them
bringing back to some property of a of
the company whether it's a physical
trade show booth like the ones that we
have right out here or a landing page a
blog something to show engagement
something to be brought in
and when you take a look many of the
activities that marketers oftentimes get
sucked into or think are part of their
scope
don't really contribute to the bottom
line a lot of them are supporting
activities that are there to um
to make smoother those revenue
generating activities and at certain
stages of growth if you don't do much
with them they're pretty much not going
to contribute to revenue i think a
really good example here and of course
for some companies it might be very
important but something like press
pr press relations you can do a super
good job you can come up with a great
press release get customer quotes get
customers to to speak on your behalf to
a reporter engage a reporter have your
briefing with them and then some news
for a third party company maybe apple
maybe google comes out at the exact same
time that you would set your pitch out
and the writer says oh that's that's not
as important as this other news writes
that up and all this work that you did
literally goes for nothing and that was
time that could have been better spent
definitely focusing on something that
would bring in new customers and new
revenue to the company again if that is
the goal for that company for marketing
which i think for most companies it is
so what we have found in eight and a
half years at datadog is that moving
slowly moving steadily moving
methodically moving with a lot of
introspection taking a look at the data
for a pilot experiment is the way to
scale marketing and the thing is that um
similar to the hair once you start to
get these little insights you found a
little trick that works here a little
trick that works there and then you
start to use them all together at some
point you start to make these huge leaps
because you figure out what works for a
marketing channel and before you know it
you're at a point where you can't grow
that channel anymore because you have
hit the ceiling there are no many ot
there are no other people available in
the market that could see this
particular
ad or trade show booth or whatever it is
to bring into your uh company property
and then it's time to turn around and
start focusing on the next channel
so
you know this all sounds good and we
talked about how marketing uh is means a
lot of things to a lot of people and
people are getting pulled a bunch of
different directions in order to be able
to really hunker down and do one thing
and become amazing at it it's important
to first narrow your focus and then set
goals realistically
so
from what i have seen an individual or a
team and here i'm defining a team as a
set of people it might be employees it
might be some employees plus contractors
plus outside agencies can only really
become fully dedicated in one thing at a
time that means that they're going to
become experts at that one thing
if you work backwards from there that
means that you have to pick one
marketing channel at a time for that
team and likely only one single campaign
or one single type of campaign and
that's all you get if you're gonna
become amazing and really understand the
ins and outs of this one individual
channel you can only focus on one major
thing at a time
until
you should set some sort of criteria
where you hit a milestone that you know
that you have gained enough mastery in
this particular kind of campaign or
marketing channel that you're good and
then you can shift your focus to keeping
that motion going and moving over to do
another thing and start from the
beginning again one thing one campaign
one team singular focus and working on
that particular um
on that particular goal at datadog the
first thing that we did that one thing
was sponsored trade shows booths just
like the ones that we have outside of
here
we um i was lucky again i mentioned i
was the first go to market employee uh
there
when i joined there was a calendar of
events that fit our target demographic
that were coming up so that was the one
thing that we did and just getting
really good at doing trade shows in a
small company took literally everything
that we had and we really didn't focus
on anything else for about a year and a
half
but 18 months later we were amazing at
trade shows we had written down a
playbook we could pass it off to
somebody else to keep that going and we
turned around and um
and started focusing on the next thing
this also means because you're going to
be singularly focused that you have to
explicitly declare the things that
you're not going to be doing now this is
going to probably run afoul of a lot of
expectations of other people at the
company that expect marketing to be
doing one thing and realistically
there's going to be website changes that
need to be made there's going to be the
occasional blog and press release that
needs to be released because uh the
product team came up with something new
but if you're able to say we're not
gonna go heavy on press relations we're
not gonna go heavy on analyst relations
we're not gonna go heavy on content
we're not gonna go heavy on advertising
whatever it's going to be if you
explicitly state you're not going to be
doing these things it becomes common
knowledge that this is not a thing that
the marketing team is working on at that
exact moment and very importantly it's
going to be at first quality versus
quantity
anyone here that's run like a twitter
campaign or google adwords campaign it's
super easy if you set things pretty
broadly to be flooded with attention
clicks leads what have you you get a ton
of them if you want but are those the
people that you really want are they
really your target demographic and
that's where negative keywords and uh
geo-location or geo-restrictions start
to uh come into effect you want to hit
that quality level and get a vein of
exactly the kind of people that you want
to reach out to before you start plowing
tons of time money and effort into
scaling a channel
now as i mentioned before product sales
other people the company are going to
have a lot of expectations but the
people that you have to get on your side
are the management team and oftentimes
the board of the company so the
management team is going to be expecting
a certain amount of things to happen
from a marketing function concurrently
declaring your scope and that it's going
to be super limited aside from just
keeping the lights on in other areas i
think is hugely helpful sorry can you go
back a slide
um
what is is important to making sure that
management buys in and then also
advocates on behalf of the board an
important way to get this message across
is to establish the hard data that
you're going to need to evaluate whether
you're hitting your goals and in this
case if you can align the goals to the
ultimate the main or the main business
objective or the ultimate goal of the
company
that usually goes a long way to
supporting a singular focus on one
marketing channel because the trade-off
that you're making
from not doing many things to doing one
is that you're going to increase the
reliability that you're going to hit
that goal if you need 500 customers by
the end of the year and that's going to
translate back to back to x 000 leads
you're going to more reliably be able to
hit those x 000 leads by doing one thing
and becoming great at it rather than by
spreading your bets and doing a lot of
things maybe halfway
which goes back to data collection
instrumentation
if anybody here is currently engaged in
marketing and you don't feel like you
have good data to work with that should
probably be the first thing to focus on
so you're able to get a data-driven case
made to the management and board of your
company to say we're going to do this
one thing in isolation until we become
great at it
a note on marketing data especially if
anybody here in the room is working with
marketing people is that it's oftentimes
imprecise uh i've had the experience
where you have multiple systems all
trying to instrument the same metric and
one gives you the number ten the other
gives you the number 13 and one gives
you the number 22. they have different
definitions of what the right metric is
how they're collecting that metric and
while
individual data points or individual
data sources might be imprecise
the important thing is that they should
be directionally correct so if one data
source goes from 10 to 40 or 10 to 200
you know for for a fact that that
marketing channel is growing and that
even though the exact number might not
be right the direction and the scale of
the direction for that specific data
source should be something that you can
trust more and you know other things are
going in the right direction
ultimately also if you know what the
case is that needs to be made back to
the board and management of a company
you can work backwards to figure out the
exact pieces of data that need to be
collected and again with a laser focus
do a good job of instrumenting those few
pieces of data to support the case that
you're making about whether the
marketing channel that you're scaling is
indeed going in the right direction
so to get to all this
you know this is i think pretty
theoretical you're going to only be able
to really focus on one thing at a time
so you want to make sure that you focus
on the right thing to spend all that
time on and the way that we've done this
at datadog is that we work on hypothesis
driven approaches to different campaigns
that we're going to invest in or even
you know if it's a small monetary
investment it's going to be a very large
investment of a scarce amount of hours
from the team that needs to get all the
pieces together to make a test work
so someone's got an idea for a campaign
fantastic
has the thought been put on paper of how
this campaign is going to work
specifically what's the mechanism what's
going to be the time limit to assess
success
are there budget limits do you have
enough expertise on the team or from the
vendor to make this campaign work as
designed
and
importantly what is the minimum result
and i think that's a really important
concept the minimum result that you need
to see to know that this specific pilot
or this specific test is actually
working the way that it has to and if it
falls short of that minimum result the
thing might not be sorry can you go back
and slide
the thing might not be working at all
and you might want to actually cut bait
quickly and move on to another idea
that's more likely to work out and
become
a beach head for you as a company to
start investing in and growing a
marketing channel
importantly if you're working with an
external team or an external vendor you
really want to make sure that they're
going to be the right people to take
this forward and i can uh tell tons of
stories of sketchy vendors that have
done weird stuff that you were never
expecting and you have to ask them to
pull back really quick
um and two other i think really
important points are
has once you put everything on paper and
you're feeling good about it it's very
easy to become blinded to any weak
points or any holes in your plan
finding a peer that knows marketing to
play devil's advocate and try to point
out holes in your in your hypothesis is
super helpful and then lastly and
extremely importantly have you
instrumented the data to make the
assessment of the campaign success
accurately do you know that you're
getting the right leads collected from
this source if it's a lead generation
campaign that you will be able to very
cleanly attribute back to that campaign
to be very confident that this thing did
indeed work
and once you have this this chart has
probably been
the methodology that's gotten us to uh
very very skilled out um areas in a lot
of campaigns the point where we've hit
tons of ceilings and we can't expend any
more time money or effort to grow that
particular campaign anymore a data dog
the number one thing is the pilot
now a lot of vendors usually have a
minimum amount that they want you to
spend oftentimes those minimums are
negotiable especially if you're talking
to them in the last sorry can you go
back
in the last couple of weeks before um
can you go back to the previous slide
thank you
if you're going back to the um
if you're going back to the vendor
working with them the last couple of
weeks before a quarter will usually get
you the discount to the minimal amount
of spend or the minimal amount of time
that you need to run something in order
to assess whether it's working or not i
think that's another big concept time is
scarce budget is scarce you want to have
the minimum amount that you need in
order to see whether something is good
and warrants more investment or whether
you should get rid of it
once the pilot proves out you want to
usually repeat and enlarge that pilot
make sure that there wasn't some sort of
seasonal fluke or that you just didn't
get lucky and this might actually be
repeated a couple of times over and once
you're feeling comfortable about the
mechanism and the campaign type
then is usually a time that you start to
spend real money and in the case that
this is an organic campaign and you're
not spending money that money is
probably people's time instead
um
once i usually call that getting a
campaign to production level and the
campaign is going great that's where you
you're going to want to start to find
the ceiling if you've already proven
everything out you understand the
dynamics of the campaign the campaign
has become predictable and repeatable
don't be afraid to go big go crazy big
go ludicrously big there should be no
fear in this once you feel that you
really gutterly understand how a
campaign is working an example from
datadog that we have is the biggest show
in our industry is uh aws amazon web
services re invent that show is actually
coming up uh and i think about two
months right after thanksgiving they're
going to be doing it in person we're
going once again as big as we possibly
can go and since the first time that we
attended we've been the top sorry can
you go back we've been the top sponsor
uh can you go back a slide please
um
we've been the top sponsor and uh for a
long time there was usually four top
sponsors at re invent one was intel big
fortune five company one was accenture
another one was deloitte really really
big consulting companies that have been
around forever no surprise there and
then there was a purple dog that nobody
knew for years when we were a small
startup and we not only were getting the
biggest spot which was super intensive
on the budget but we had to man this
ginormous booth space that we've been
given and we would fly out literally for
the first years the entire company and
then portions of the company and that
transmit translated to literally
hundreds of people that we were flying
out putting up in las vegas for a week
and having them do all sorts of
different tasks but the thing was that
re invent is the best campaign that we
run in every metric that we assess it's
actually our most efficient we have
access to the biggest customers that we
end up bringing on board and uh we power
an entire year sometimes there are deals
that are still about to be closed by the
time that the next re invent rolls
around that we've been working on
because they're so large for the entire
year since we met them at the trade show
so
um
for a long time people would say like oh
datadog what's up with you guys you guys
are bringing hundreds of people there's
purple shirts everywhere you guys are
crazy well that's where we found our
biggest customers and it's the best show
and if there were multiple reinvents at
the same investment of people money and
time i would love nothing better but to
be able to invest over and over and over
again because once we figured out how
that show worked that's become our best
campaign
a couple of words here on hiring
once a campaign starts to feel like it's
old hat
it's time to pass it on the um once you
hit that ceiling and you or you maybe
even before you hit the ceiling you
understand how this campaign type works
so this channel works time to pass it
off right up the playbook writing a
playbook i think is a really good
exercise also because when you start
putting things on paper for somebody
completely random to have to pick up and
run with you start to realize all of the
gaps all the holes all the things that
weren't actually fully thought out that
you should put a little bit more time
investment into to figure out before
you're going to get somebody completely
net new to try to do this thing as well
as you've been doing it for months or
maybe even years
hiring a specialist is of course always
preferable someone that's going to bring
back
a background and experience in that
particular area to grow things faster or
do things in a different direction
different from what you had thought to
do but sometimes an eager beaver someone
a bit more junior in their career that
has a lot of enthusiasm and a lot of
energy is a good match also and just the
sheer sweat equity can bring in a lot of
new opportunities and new things that
you wouldn't have thought to do and
keeps on growing that that program
hiring an experienced leader is
definitely a good shortcut for that
learning curve someone can bring in a
bag of tricks or a lot of experience of
how this specific channel works
that they can work on before or that
have worked out for them before and they
you are able to take control of that
channel faster and i think a good rule
of thumb is if you get to a point where
you have two full-time employees working
on that one campaign or that one
campaign type and especially they're
raising their hand and saying i'm
turning down good opportunities because
i just don't have enough hours in the
day to work on them that's usually the
time to bring in a leader to grow that
market out or that marketing team out
further and to try to take that team to
grow explosively to keep on finding the
ceiling and once they get there
maybe even broadening the scope of what
they're working on
to
get more market opportunities because at
the end of the day as companies we're
all out here for world domination we
want to become the next salesforce.com
and the way to do that is to fully
excavate a marketing channel up until
you find the ceiling
so my last slide here what happens when
uh when you've hit the promised land
you've scaled out a marketing channel
your your function you know that pilot
campaign from a couple months ago or
maybe a couple of years ago is like a
just a pebble of what you're usually
doing on an average day in terms of
getting this big boulder pushed up the
hill
i think one thing in particular is you
could always do better and i think that
many people have heard the quote from
michael jordan where he kept track of
how many baskets he'd missed sorry can
you go backwards
um and you can always optimize you can
always find new opportunities you can
always keep on doing better
one important thing to note is you know
i think that early on i thought hey once
i get google adwords working great and
i've got a great you know baseline i can
just take the day off it'll be fine no
problem but the thing is that everything
around your campaigns is in constant
flux there's changes in platforms
there's changes and shifts in the market
there's changes in personas and what a
person wanted last year is different
from what they're going to want this
year competitors are going to come in
other products that support your
ecosystem are going to come in and edge
is always going to erode so once you've
got your campaign set up great
you have to keep on taking a look at it
seeing what's going on evaluating the
numbers at a very fine
scale to make sure that your edge is
staying as sharp as it was when you
declared this thing um sorry can you go
back
i don't know who's got the trigger
finger it's not me
um
so the edge is going to erode and you
want to keep sharp
at certain inflection points i think
that this is for somebody that that is
getting to new levels of skill that they
haven't worked on for that particular
channel before
you're gonna have to take apart your
whole campaign because things are not
gonna work as effectively or potentially
at all anymore running a google adwords
campaign that spends low thousands a
month is different from a google adwords
campaign that's spending millions a
month for instance having a 5x5 or a 10
by 10 booth is completely different from
running a 30 by 30 monster maybe even a
double decker booth with a with an
upstairs where you're running meeting
rooms and when you take it apart you're
going to potentially need new systems
new kinds of employees new
ways a new playbook potentially and then
you're going to have to put things back
together to be functioning as
effectively at that larger scale as you
were at the smaller scale and i think a
very important note here especially i'm
sure a lot of people here are in
companies that are growing very quickly
and just like me you're looking out into
the market hiring is getting tough but
once you're able to find the right hire
it's exciting you want to bring them in
as quickly as possible you're being told
by your boards and by your management
grow grow grow
i think that team member number 10 and
this is why this is the last thing i'm
going to talk about and put it in red
is i think the flashing light
for scaling a team where you need to
maybe take a step back slow down for a
little bit and similarly
look at the team analyze it potentially
take it apart and put it back together
again i've i have found that that 10th
hire on a team is two or three hires
away from getting to an inflection point
where there's too many people
coordinating communicating becomes
really difficult and even though you've
added way more people the team is
actually producing less because they
haven't been built for scale so i think
that team member number 10 is the moment
to stop
document everything identify points that
are ambiguous where you have to either
document them very thoroughly or you
need to roll out a small training
program for that team instituting
regular check-in meetings potentially
coming in with more tooling so everybody
can know what everybody else is working
on that's really the moment where if
you're able to do that for people you're
going to be able to keep on scaling
because the thing is that for campaigns
they're relatively easy i mean not easy
but they're straightforward is probably
a better word to peel back the onion see
what's going on retool maybe there's a
very uh tailor-made solution that you
plug in that system and the thing starts
working well at scale again but people
are a little bit more challenging and to
get them all working together can be
more challenging so that's why i
definitely want to highlight that that's
probably the moment where you want to
stop and retool and make sure that
you're built for for scale and building
a team for more than 10 people you're
actually really building a team for 30
to 40 at that moment and that's where
you want to be thinking of because you
also want to be able to add
people if you have found success add a
large clip to where you quickly get to
30 or 40.
so with that
um
all right now i do want to move to the
next slide
uh thank you everybody
hopefully you've been able to glean some
kind of insight or something to help you
scale and again i think that the most
important thing is to scale with so many
distractions with so many things that
marketing is being asked to do if you
don't get to that singular focus and you
don't focus on that one thing
get the stats good evaluate the stats
keep on doing repeated pilots repeated
uh enlargements of the campaign until
you get to that scale and you try to
find the ceiling it's very difficult to
get the subject matter expertise in that
one channel to be able to hit that
ceiling and get to the point where you
can't do anymore
so with that
hopefully i'm able to help some of you
guys hit that ceiling and thank you very
much
[Music]